when you put women on a pedestal at the
same time you're really removing them
from the sphere of serious intellectual
and political discourse and there are
many examples of this from my personal
life from current political theater it
is bizarre to me that people continue to
refer to Ivanka Trump the daughter of
President Donald Trump as if she were a
child as if she were a teenager she's
basically the same age I am she is 35
years old many people are shocked when
you mentioned this I mentioned this
today to my Chinese teacher we talk
about politics and stuff in class like
you know people talk about her like
she's a teenage model and she's not
she's a married woman who is 35 years
old who has had an elite education who
has had a string of jobs on paper that
look very impressive on paper I don't
really know I mean I don't really know
that much about her career obviously
some of that stuff may be exaggerated on
her resume but with that with that
having been noted this is a 35 year old
woman who has been engaged in American
business dealings at an elite level and
is now engaged in American politics at
an elite level and in international
politics in the Lea level so how are we
gonna talk about her the extent to which
she is infantilized she is discussed as
if she were an infant as if she were a
child in the mainstream media is so
broad is so deep is so personal that
people are often shocked we say you know
she's 3500 woman now what was it that
brought this to mind I have a video on
this channel where I mentioned it was
just a strange thing at one point Donald
Trump said of his daughter Ivanka that
she was a big fan of 50 cent and g-unit
the rapper 50 cent and it made me stop
and think oh how old is Ivanka and I
looked it up you know probably when 50
cent was at the peak of his fame that
probably would have been when Ivanka was
in her first year of university or
possibly her last year of high school
and Donald Trump making that comment
that his own daughter was a big fan of
this
per 50 cent quite likely true I mean
whether or not yeah anyway I don't know
how closely you paid attention to his
daughter's taste in music but she
certainly is the right generation of
people would that would have been the
song playing in the hallway and playing
at the school dance party or whatever in
her last year of high school or first
year of university approximately that
time it is no doubt true that many
people in this world are a
psychologically scarred by being told
again and again that they're ugly that
they're worthless that they're not smart
enough but there's a flip side of that
which is that many many people are in a
sense really psychologically damaged and
really have their intellectual
development impaired because people are
always telling them that they're
beautiful that they're good enough that
they're smart enough that they're
wonderful when they're not that they
deal with if you like a cushion of
flattery separating themselves from the
hard edges of reality and I have known
women like this myself
face-to-face and we have a tremendous
problem in our culture with actually
criticizing women the same way we would
criticize a man if you're gonna
criticize the political views and the
economic views of Ivanka Trump do not do
her the disservice of patronizing her
and treating her as a cute teenage
female she's a 35 year old woman
criticize her the same way you would
criticize a 35 year old man but I would
say and this is doubly this video the
same way you would criticize a 25 year
old man or even a 65 year old man if if
we are adults talking about politics I
think there is a level of seriousness
and a level of severity and even a level
of silliness that everyone is a lot it
ought to be allotted equally they ought
to be treated with equal seriousness
equal rigor yes also equal silliness you
know
satire is also part of politics and so
on let's not kid ourselves as a culture
modern Western culture we have a huge
problem with trivializing the voices of
women at the same time that we put them
on a pedestal right now of course we're
job
we're trivializing the seriousness of
their opinions their understanding their
perspective in the world and what we're
putting on a pedestal most of the time
it's just their physical beauty there
are some exceptions you know probably
some female athletes are putting a
pedestal for other reasons not just
their beauty at cetera center okay so I
got some responses here to my critique
of wengie and I don't think any of y'all
googled wengie before writing these
these frankly idiotic comments now I've
said many times I cannot waste my time
responding to the stupidest 90% of my
audience uh but in this case I think
these comments illustrate this broader
deeper problem of how we address
ourselves to women of any age but
especially women who are perceived as
young and again Ivanka Trump perceived
as young at age 35 all right so first
come and none of these are from trolls
these are all people who watch my
channel codes and they're not trolls
they're concerned citizens so I have one
comment here I read quote as a sulfurous
as a self-proclaimed vegan activist I
fail to understand how this type of
video can help the vegan cause in any
way nevertheless I appreciate the
entertainment aspect although I do find
you condescending in this video think
about the word condescending I continue
the quote quote have you ever thought
that when G has perhaps not reached
intellectual maturity in order to
understand what intellectual integrity
means question mark you are a teacher
why don't you teach her instead of
laughing at her okay close quote I'm not
Wendy's teacher
when G is not a child when G is an adult
woman the only references I have seen to
when G's age on the Internet indicate
that she is over 30 years old if you
find that surprising go to youtube right
now you know what follow the link I'll
give you a link below the video but II
can go to youtube and simply search for
when G plastic surgery that alone will
probably convince you that she's over 30
years old if I'm wrong how young do you
think she is again you look at that
plastic surgery video she has had many
surgeries you can even see them just
scrolling down to her YouTube channel
you can see some changes in her face
looking at earlier videos um what's her
minimum age here 25 I think nobody
believes she's under 25 again look at
the plastic surgery video I do find it
believable the different references have
found her being over 30 or perhaps
exactly 30 years old but if she were 25
this would still be a [ __ ] concept
comment okay quote have you ever thought
that when G has not reached the
intellectual level of maturity to
understand what intellectual turn means
no I don't think that because I'm not a
sexist piece of [ __ ] okay you say that
my video is condescending no talking to
women as if they're infants as if their
opinions don't matter as if their
opinions are not to be taken equally as
seriously as a man's that is being
condescending what I'm doing is the
opposite of being condescending I
criticize wengie exactly the same way I
criticize durianrider you can see that
in the same video you could go back and
make contrast to my videos into your
mother some people only a couple of
people ever have said to me that they
thought I criticized women more harsher
than men on my channel and just in
conversations like this like in the in
the comment section or whatever email I
asked them well have you actually seen
my videos criticizing man and I give
them links to examples of criticize men
in terms of politics in terms of
Buddhism but it's philosophy under a
number of headings of course in
connection to veganism animal right
I have very harsh incisive trenchant
criticisms of men now I would feel like
garbage
if I was going easy on the women if I
was saying oh well she's female
therefore I'm not gonna really point out
what she's doing wrong that would be
condescending that would be and against
sexism it's not really the right term
because sexism is just an ideology that
would be you know allowing a sexist
worldview to really warp and hamper and
impair your engagement with politics
which is ultimately this is about for me
for me this is not really about diet
advice diet advice is worth talking but
also okay now as it happens when she is
a thirty year old woman so far as I know
if I'm wrong but she could if someone
told me she's actually 28 I would
believe it I do not think she can be
much younger than 30 take a look at the
video on her plastic surgery
it is very believable that she's over 30
I don't think that matters I think this
person may become who is a female or is
apparently female you don't on the
internet anyone can fit but this is
apparently a female I think on a really
deep level you perceive someone as a
young woman which really means a
youthful woman because again Ivanka
Trump is perceived as young or youthful
at age 35 and I understand why I mean I
how she doesn't dress like an old woman
I understand there's a sense in which
Ivanka Trump who also has plastic
surgery she may create an illusion that
she's more youthful issues but she is a
fully adult woman okay now I don't know
where you put the cutoff but for me
anyone over 23 I talked to as an adult
period I would man or a woman if you've
reached 23 I will talk to you the same
way I talk to someone who's 65 or 55
we're all equal over 23 that's where I
put the cutoff I have a lot of
experience on University campuses
talking to people who are between 17 and
23 so I guess at 17 to 22 where I'm not
talking them with the same level of
honesty but I am still trying to help
them where you're a little bit more
restrained a
a little bit more polite but for me not
flattering and there can be a lot of
different like talking about meat eating
talking about what goes on in a
slaughterhouse I actually do not put a
guilt trip on an eighteen year old the
same way I would on a 23 volt I do not
want to emotionally upset someone who's
that young or challenging that extent
however I mean like I remember I was
talking to one young man and he was
speaking in very coded language even
though he knew I was Jewish I'm Jewish
by blood but I remember was tagged young
one young man and it was obvious that he
was a bit of a neo-nazi or Nazi
sympathizer now you know I did try to we
were having conversation actually about
political events immediately after World
War two and this kid was not dumb but
was and you know in case you have a
conversation was like I'm not gonna try
to discuss politics with this kid the
same way I would a fifty year old man
cuz whatever let's say he was nineteen I
don't really know his age but on the
other hand I'm not gonna be patronizing
I'm not gonna be condescending I'm not
gonna flatter him I'm not gonna say oh
good for you I'm so glad you're reading
history I'm so glad you're interested in
the history of Western Europe no kid I'm
[ __ ] terrified for you I think you're
turning into a [ __ ] neo-nazi I think
step by step you're reading a bunch of
biased and misleading literature that's
gonna take you down a path that's
dangerous to yourself and others and
it's it is fundamentally factually wrong
okay same [ __ ] with diet advice really
it is I think people start reading
biased information about health and
science and nutrition and step by step
that takes them down a path that is
dangerous to themselves and others it is
very true of fad diets it's very true of
religion and again I've had to talk to
people who were Buddhists who believed
in Buddhism in a supernatural sense and
some of them were eighteen and some of
them were fifty eight you know I've had
a lot of these kinds of careful
conversations people we are really
trying to educate someone and maybe take
them away from a supernatural worldview
and put them back in touch throughout
I've had a lot of difficult
conversations people like this my life
in some sense I think those other skills
I bring to YouTube by the way that's why
I'm as good as I am at talking to you
guys right now on YouTube and I'm not
good enough for you
go watch durianrider instead see if I
give a [ __ ] but some people appreciate
you know this this form of reasoning
that I've
- YouTube okay so no the actual
questions Tuesday was have you thought
that when she has not reached
intellectual maturity in order to
understand is no even if she hasn't even
if she's a thirty year old woman who
hasn't the whole point is I am gonna
treat her with the dignity to take her
worldview seriously to criticize and
excoriate it seriously as I would for a
man and you have to stop receiving women
this way right you may not put the
cutoff at 23 you may put the cutoff at
18 or 26 I don't know you have to decide
like I came into that number 23 honestly
within the last I don't know within the
last five years because I spent so much
time on University campuses I thought
you know what at age 23 people are as
mature as they're gonna get getting
older is not getting wiser you give me
people are 60 years old there's still a
goddamn fool oh really
I really just based on empirical so you
know what 23 that's it you got a I treat
people as as fully grown adults um so
look I I got a couple more comments here
I'm gonna read I said earlier it is true
and we have a lot of folks in the
society being told that you're ugly can
have a really negative impact on you you
know growing up or in your adult life be
but being told that you're beautiful all
the time can also have a negative impact
on you one of my girlfriends I haven't
had that many so some of these stories
overlap but I had a blonde Canadian
girlfriend she was both cute and sexy so
rare combination she had many other
redeeming qualities but you know in
terms of her face like some women have a
face that people find austere or
imposing or challenging she had a face
that looked cute in the sense of being
non-threatening she's also beautiful but
I mean I'm just saying there's a
specific type of face now most of us one
more eight years old can walk down the
street and smile at people smile at
complete strangers make eye-to-eye
contact with them and maybe at eight
years old you expect them to smile back
but she got to age 30 she went through
her whole life behaving in this
basically childish way on the streets of
Toronto so may I guess I'm thinking of
her at about age 26 I forget exactly uh
and she would actually get disappointed
angry if complete strangers didn't smile
back at her right and I said a very
simple thing to her because we were
actually we're walking through Chinatown
together and she did this to a Chinese
woman who was a middle-aged well let's
say it was a 55 year old Chinese woman
on the street and then my girlfriend
complained to me that this Chinese woman
didn't reciprocate her making eye
contact in this way Chinese woman's
probably was having a bad day or
whatever but Chinese woman kind of
looked at her and scowled and then
looked down to the street and shuffled
past her yeah I said I'm a girl but
straight up do you think you would
expect this kind of behavior to be
rewarded if you were a tall thin black
male the level of seriousness expected
of you and the way your behavior is
evaluated by being a tall thin man and
as in Canada in Toronto or in many parts
in States being a tall thin black man an
african-american a man African descent
it is totally different even for
something as Tiny as eye contact but my
girlfriend at that time she was so used
to the whole world
telling her that she was beautiful and
wonderful and pandering to her and
treating her like an infant and
rewarding infantile behavior in well
into her 20s I'm sure now it's Tocantins
30s this was devastating for I didn't
say in a mean way I just said have you
considered look what what reaction will
you expect from this stranger on the
street if you were a tall thin black
male instead of a short sexy cute white
woman again even some women like there's
some women who have more of a tall
statuesque look that's a little bit more
threatening and that not quite the same
behavior gets accepted from them I think
they're regarded as more imposing or
what-have-you and you know I may have
mentioned this on the Internet at some
point that same girlfriend she told me
proudly about one time when she she had
an assignment you know I can essay
assignment for one of her classes I
forgive probably art history class
something you know and there were these
very specific guidelines to the
assignment she decided to throw away all
the guidelines and instead of doing a
normal essay you know supposed to be
printed out of a computer with you know
a certain page
kitchens she got out her her colored
pens and pencils and she bought a big
poster sized piece of paper and she drew
pretty pictures around the border and
she did the essay handwritten like
including the bibliography on one big
like I forgot it was pink but it was
some kind of construction paper and she
handed in to the professor
you know smiling and she got a good mind
she got an A - is she she wasn't
penalized for doing this for handing in
us a handwritten essay that way and I
said to her again do you think I would
have gotten away with that [ __ ] do you
think the professor would have just the
president even asked her there was no
meeting there was no question there was
no question of dr. marks being doc and I
really think this is just not taking
women seriously like so whatever when
she did that she was probably 22 years
old
she she worked for a few years she
actually took a few years off between
high school and university so she could
have been even older she should have
been 23 years I know there there's a
sense in which her education doesn't
matter who are living up to the same
standards as the other students does
matter just because she's a cute female
she's perceived as a young or youthful
female it's actually a huge problem in
our society again she was very
uncomfortable with that and I just asked
her again with the other terms do you
think a tall thin black man in your
scene class if he handed in that same
thing what do you think the professor's
reaction would be do you think they
would waive the requirements for the
assignment and just accept this it's
like a primary school [ __ ] craft
project instead of a proper academic
essay why no and what is the problem
with that
so that girlfriend by the way she
identified as a feminist it's a problem
and it cuts deep and there's one more
strong one so I'm gonna get on with this
but I mean all right I'll push on I'm
gonna read the next coming comment again
from a female viewer not a troll a
female a viewer who identifies this
female in a write because on the
internet you don't know anyone really is
a lot of your stuff is interesting she
says but it's really irritating how you
keep resorting to ad hominem attacks the
part of the video that actually got
substance is you addressing her false
claims but you hysterically laughing at
a twenty-something year old girl's
mannerisms in some kind of attempt to
undermine her credibility just feels
really petty I get that youtubers are
false and overly fake but why not just
make a passing comment about this rather
than trying to mock them
okay so again twenty-something year old
girl so this person doesn't I mean it's
not possible that she's a teenager you
can look at the you know plus surgery
video but if she were in her 20s to my
knowledge she's in her 30s but if she
were an adult woman in her 20s so this
is a woman who got some kind of
university degree in marketing and who
has had a career in corporate marketing
and if we're heaping all the way real it
shows if you look at this YouTube
channel it seems like the YouTube
channel of an adult woman who had a
career in marketing especially if you
compare what her videos like you okay
you are asking me to pander to her to
not treat her like a [ __ ] human being
because she's a 20-something female
twenty-something is a dolt read the
history of the [ __ ] Western world
people in their 20s are old enough to
join the army
plenty people in their 20s are members
of parliament still today but much more
in medieval history in your 20s you are
mentally and intellectually an adult and
how long you gonna infantilize people
are you gonna why would you treat anyone
man or woman as an infant as mentally
incompetent in their 20s in this case
she's not even in her 20s but weren't
her minimum age here has got to be 25
this is sick and it's a sickness that's
more powerful because it's invisible
these people this is something as a
distorting myopic view of the world Noah
if if she was in her mid if she was 25 I
don't regret anything I've said now
again you can compare this to other
forms of MA
Kurian criticism of engagement III
repeatedly uh so okay we just had a
comment confirming apparently her
current age is thirty precisely so the
comments have seen that she's exactly
thirty and that she's in her 30s those
are both accurate but apparently she did
turn thirty of some number of months ago
show she's 30 years old but I say this
is really sick now you know look um when
I criticize when I laugh at when I scorn
durianrider for sitting on the floor of
his kitchen and having an emoji out and
ranting at the camera when I criticize
his mannerisms as well as his content
which i think is worthwhile important to
do in as much as veganism is political
movement blah blah blah you know why
would his age or gender be a factor
think about what the course of action is
you're recommending here I mean you know
I have I have so many videos excoriating
seriously harshly criticizing
excoriating male intellectuals male
leaders some of them under the heading
of atheism under netting of Buddhism
vegan politics etc etc and the fact that
she's 30 years old shouldn't change
things the fact that she's a woman
shouldn't change things if you're a
person with any intellectual integrity
you're quite right
to treat others in this way and demand
that they also conduct themselves
intellectual target which is what you
failed to do and then there's another
apply from another female Condit or
apparently female commenter who says
agreed a ballast CL makes some awesome
vlogs but in this case I think he needs
to pick on someone his own size close
quote
think about how condescending that is
think about how insulting that is really
that comment is more insulting the when
she than anything I said youyou think I
need to pick on someone says when G is
more successful than I'll ever be she's
more successful than me financially in
terms of her career says she already had
us
cessful career in marketing it shows
she's more successful on YouTube so far
as I know I think she's probably a
better education than I have to when
she's got a lot going for her and that
for me also raises the question like if
you don't think when he's an idiot again
you look at some of her earlier videos
she's not always acting like such an
idiot to what extent is she being
intentionally misleading and insincere
so Tyson also when she she read a book
that she said changed her life and it's
a book many of you will know very well
she read a book called how not to die by
dr. Greger
and she said it totally changed her
understanding of health and nutrition
and changed the way she eats and the
advice she gives me Internet this is an
adult woman 30 years old who read dr.
Gregers favorite book and change her
life accordingly now already
what do you mean pick on someone your
own size this is someone so when she is
entitled not just to have her own
opinions about health and nutrition
she's nailed everyone opinion on theism
if somebody don't know dr. Greger is
probably the world's most famous and
effective vegan propaganda artist he is
a legitimate medical doctor who uses
legitimate medical science to publish
vegan propaganda okay I'm not saying
that all this stuff is full of lies some
of his stuff is good some of it is not
so good but he is not a doctor who
merely insinuates that you ought to
reduce the amount of meat you're eating
or you ought to vaguely have a healthier
diet dr. Greger is 100% insistent and
persistent and saying basically everyone
ought to go vegan and he argues that
primarily in terms of health outcomes
not in terms of animal rights or ethics
but in terms of the dramatic effect the
vegan diet can have on your likelihood
to have a variety of cancers heart
disease etc okay so when g read that
book and she has videos responding to
and giving her advice
East on her statement that dr. Gregers
book changed her life and transformed
her understanding of modern health
science and diet and she's making this
video is not telling you to go vegan I
mean again even if that is the only book
she has ever read in her life on
nutritional science that actually gives
you a pretty pretty high level of
knowledge really specifically salient to
what we talk about here on a ballast
sail Broadcasting Corporation um and
she's not recommending you go vegan
she's not even recommending you do
push-ups she's recommending this
horseshit like drink cold water and the
cold water can send more calories per
day already discussed at length all
right now what if she was a 20-something
year old girl as you say again
twenty-seven twenty-seven year old woman
if she was twenty-five and this is all
you know butter she read dr. Gregers
book she's making health that on a level
I think these people haven't examined
they are treating women as infants they
are just not taking them seriously I
take freely just as seriously as I take
durianrider
in some ways I think I think freely more
seriously because durianrider is pretty
[ __ ] hard to take seriously for
nothing to do with gender alright um and
so one more comment again this guy is
not a troll he's a longtime viewer the
comments are I assume this is male in
this case actually there's no indication
could be male or female um there must be
a way to call out stupid [ __ ]
without making yourself look creepy or
immature the way you laughed at this
ditzy girl was crunchy okay cuz that
video closes with like two minutes of me
laughing and how ridiculous when Jesus
okay
so look I just say why is it creepy or
immature for me a 38 year old man to
criticize a 30 year old woman she may be
a 30 old woman who behaves like a
teenager but that in itself is actually
a very good reason to criticize her
right why is it immature for me to
criticize her I mean again I I have
absolutely no doubt in my heart that
what I said in that video you guys know
the video covered a range of topics
it included you know me expressing
interesting and concern over some of the
things durianrider did the general
question of honesty on the Internet the
general call contrast between telling
the truth telling a lie and taking this
sort of position in between we were
saying things that are in a sense
technically kind of sort of true and yet
misleading there's a lot there but no I
mean so there's two words here using
this complaint one is creepy and one is
immature why would it be immature and
why would it be creepy really worth
questioning really worth questioning for
a 38 year old man to criticize the
ludicrous health and diet advice from a
30 year old woman and again in this case
interestingly a 30 year old woman who
read dr. Gregers book and who claimed
that it dramatically transformed her
life her attitude towards diet health
and fitness etc
on another matter you know I had a
complaint come in and I just say this
they'll do sympathy because a lot of
these people are so someone made the
comment it's totally to come and tell
them in the comics just now some people
think it's cringy to laugh at your own
jokes I wasn't laughing at my own jokes
I was laughing at how terrible her video
was successes case in which I was not
laughing at my jokes
I was with laughing at it was quite
obvious what was laughing at I was
laughing at her again a thirty year old
woman who has had a lot of plastic
surgery and who does who pretends to be
a ditzy teenager on camera but we all
know that she isn't look I got a comment
from someone else who again is not a
troll who said to me look some of these
videos you do are upsetting you should
think about how this person's family
would feel if they watched it now that
is kind of an interesting point it's
interesting but it's wrong you
absolutely cannot censor yourself when
talking about politics as if your video
or addressed to the mother and
grandfather of the person you're
criticizing that's impossible
i as a standard there's absolutely no
way you can do it now I can also say in
this case sometimes you make a criticism
of somebody and it really is intended
for the person you criticize just today
happy healthy vegan had a criticism of
durianrider up and in many ways you know
happy LD vegan was not talking to the
crowd they were talking directly to
durianrider they were really trying to
get the critters across to him to change
his behavior so sometimes that's the
case but most of the time were neither
doing this for the friends and family of
the person were criticizing we can't
possibly censor ourselves the extent of
trying to make when jeez mom happy
if Wendy's mom sees my food we can't do
that but some
we also have to recognize that we are
doing this for our audience in my case I
have you know no second thoughts about
it when I'm making these videos I'm
doing it for the movement the movement
isn't me and it isn't you and it isn't
her and it isn't her parents it isn't
any one person or attitude and in many
ways the movement is something that
doesn't exist yet something that's
unknowable something that remains
unknown because it's still forming out
of this massive eccentrics on the
internet and people holding placards in
the street the vegan movement I think of
as something yet to exist something we
can't fully define or can't fully
understand or can't fully criticize
because it's not even real yet it's an
idea and a dream and an aspiration that
we share but if you were to actually ask
me why do I bother to criticize wengie
why do I bother to film myself laughing
and how terrible her video is and share
it with you guys believe it or not it's
not for wengie it's not for Wendy's mom
it's not for fame it's not for money
it's not for the views it may be hard
for some you'll blame if you're new to
this channel but truth be told I am
doing it for the movement